--- PAGE 1 ---
Intro to AI Concepts for Medical Billing and Coding Syllabus 
Prerequisites: None 
Clock Hours: 4 (Note: 4 clock hours accounts only for time spent in the online course and does not include time 
spent outside of the course or study time. Study time will vary widely per individual.) 
 
Course Length: This is an 8-week course. 
Class Hours: Days/Times Per Week: This course is asynchronous and does not require class meetings. 
 
Certificate of Completion Issued: Yes 
 
Course Description: This course will provide medical professionals, coders, and billers with an introductory 
understanding of AI concepts and applications in coding and billing procedures. Learn how AI can improve 
efficiency, accuracy, and productivity in medical coding and billing practices by leveraging natural language 
processing, machine learning, and automation. 
 
Course Objectives: 
• 
Understand AI and its processes and potential for medical coding and billing. 
• 
Identify Natural Language Processing and machine learning in improving AI 
• 
Understand the significance of AI and transforming workflows in the current industry 
 
Course Content: 
• 
Introduction to AI in Healthcare 
• 
Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Medical Coding 
• 
AI-driven Continuous Learning and Adaptability 
• 
Enhancing Coding Accuracy with AI 
• 
AI Applications in Medical Billing 
• 
Ethical Considerations and Data Privacy in AI for Medical Coding and Billing 
• 
Implementation and Integration of AI in Medical Coding and Billing Workflows 
• 
Future Trends and Opportunities in AI for Medical Coding and Billing 
• 
Final Exam 
 
Methods of Evaluation: 
The instructional methods used include reading assignments, interactive study activities, module review tests, and 
a final exam. To receive a certificate of completion, students must successfully complete the course within the 
allotted time frame. 
 
Successful course completion includes: 
• A passing score of 70% of higher on all module review exams 
• A passing score of 70% or higher on the final exam 
• An overall final course scores of 70% or higher 
No reduced hours in the course or tuition discount for previous education or training will be granted. 
 
Included Textbook: 
Intro to AI Concepts for Medical Billing and Coding 
Computer Requirements: High-speed internet connection with Blackboard supported Operating System & Web 
browser (see operating system and internet/web browser link: https://www.aapc.com/support/training/how-do-
the-online-distance-learning-courses-work-and-what-do-i-need-to-do-to); Adobe Acrobat Reader. For best 
experience, use of a mobile device is not recommended. 


--- PAGE 2 ---
Course Enrollment Fee: Payment is due in full at time of enrollment. Fees listed do not include any recommended 
textbooks/supplies or computer requirements, which are to be purchased separately by the student. Prices are 
variable and subject to change, see AAPC website for most current enrollment fees: 
https://www.aapc.com/training/online-medical-terminology-training-course.aspx 
